Also,
I would like you to think about and reflect on the
following qualities an individual may possess.
The first is motivation.
Do you think they have the general desire or willingness to do
pretty much anything you need done on their own,
map and chart their own course?
This is very important.
The second is attitude.
Winston Churchill said "attitude is a little thing that makes a big difference,
" and I completely agree.
Do they have a good, positive attitude?
Granted these are a bit harder to determine in the interviewing process.
That is why you need to get them to talk and while they are talking and
telling all about themselves and sharing their experiences,
you are also looking for examples of their attitude and motivation.
Alright,
now let's explore how we might design the questions for these
interesting and very important qualities as well.
Motivation.
It's the general desire or willingness of someone to do something.
You can have all the technical, communication,
and leadership skills in the world, but if you are not very motivated,
well, not much work will likely get done.
Now some people are self motivated,
that is all on their own they drive to get things done,
and I love that.
So there's the personal drive,
the desire to improve or to meet certain standards.
There's a commitment to personal or organizational goals,
people who are committed.
Initiative, which we define as the readiness to act on opportunities.
I like that.
And then of course, optimism,
the ability to keep going and pursue goals in the face of setbacks.
But the best way to motivate people is to first
understand what does in fact motivate them.
So I might ask a question something like this -
what motivates you professionally?
What gets you excited to come to work?
And then sit back and let them talk.
Determine if the things they need to be motivated are things that you can,
in fact, really give them.
If they say I just love working with customers and
understanding their business problems and then be able to
design simple and easy to use solutions,
okay is that something you can provide?
Well maybe you can't provide 100%, but maybe 75%,
maybe you could talk through that.
Hey I have a new project coming up,
I need someone to get in there and talk to the customer,
figure out the requirements.
I need a new requirements definition template, can you build that as well?
And here's what we're going to achieve for the business,
here's what you're doing that will tie to the business,
and things like that might get them all excited.
Remember there is the side of self motivation,
but there's the other side of you as a manager to provide the
environment so they can be motivated or even more motivated
than they ever thought they could be.
A positive or negative attitude affects how workers approach their jobs and
attitudes can have a ripple effect on all those around them,
and I mean ripple.
Bad attitudes demotivate people resulting in less productivity and can
poorly affect customer service and be a real morale killer.
This can lead to less teamwork, higher turnover,
all the things we've talked about will become unraveled right before your eyes.
So pay special attention to the potential new hire's attitude.
So you'll want to ask questions that may bring out the following qualities,
let's see some.
We always want to look for honesty, always tell it like it is.
Humility, someone who's modest and displays some humbleness.
Perseverance, ability not to give up,
in other words have that good positive attitude,
even during tough and rough times.
I like to even use humor in my life and my professional career,
but I like to see that in other's as well.
Initiative, of course, a real self starter.
And determination, ability to overcome obstacles.
So a question might be something like this,
tell me about a time when it was necessary to admit to
others that you had made a mistake, and how did you handle that?
Again, sit back and listen, look for how honest is he or she talking?
Any humility?
Perseverance?
Initiative?
Determination?
You can even make a little checklist, as I do,
and as you hear things you can just go, check,
check, check or maybe x, x, x.
Did I hear some humility?
Did I hear this?
Did I hear that?
Because a lot of times after you've interviewed two or three or
four people and you're back with your team,
you may not remember all these subtle things that might make
the big and best difference in who you pick.
So when you're putting together your requirements for your new hire,
don't forget about attitude and motivation.
These qualities, to me,
are so very essential to their success and your success in your new job.
Okay, now let's move on to a completely different type of question just for fun.
You may also think of asking a really out of the box type of question,
in this example we'll be testing for problem solving and critical thinking.
And let's look at the following example.
Your customer wants to hire you for 3 days,
so you're asking this to the interviewee.
You must be paid at the end of every day, that seems reasonable.
Your customer has but just bar of gold to pay you with,
now your customer can only cut the bar once,
do you take the job?
What you are looking for is the thought process the person is going through.
For example, they may say,
well I will work for 3 days and you can just pay me the full bar at the end.
Okay, this is pretty good, a form of negotiating, I kind of like that.
Then inform them that they must be paid at the end of every day,
in other words, that bar's going to get cut.
Then they may say, okay I can work 2 days,
12 hours each day rather than 3 days 8 hours a day,
and that way you can cut the bar once and give me half
the first day and half the second day.
That's not bad, they're being creative.
Then inform them that you really need them for 8 hours a day for 3 days.
Hmm, they say, okay.
They then say,
well after the first day please cut one-third of the bar off and give it to me.
Okay now we're even after that first day.
Then after the second day we will exchange my third bar for your
remaining two-thirds bar and we are even again.
Then at the end of the third day you can give me back the one-third bar.
Well okay.
They thought through multiple scenarios and finally
arrived at a solution that works.
So think about some situational questions and let them do
the talking or asking more questions,
et cetera to assess what I call their critical thinking skills.
Also,
I put together a sample list of interview questions to give you a head start. And it can be found in the demo's zip file for this module.